# How to contribute

We want to make it as easy and transparent as possible to contribute. If we are missing anything or can make the process easier in any way, [please let us know](mailto:npm@kommo.com).

## Code of conduct

We expect all participants to read our [code of conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) to understand which actions are and aren’t tolerated.

## Open development

All work on "react-hooks" happens directly on GitHub. Both team members and external contributors send pull requests which go through the same review process.

## Semantic versioning

"react-hooks" package follow semantic versioning. We release [patch versions for bug fixes](./CONTRIBUTING.md#patch), [minor versions for new features](./CONTRIBUTING.md#minor), and [major versions for breaking changes](./CONTRIBUTING.md#major). When we make breaking changes, we introduce deprecation warnings in a minor version along with the upgrade path so that our users learn about the upcoming changes and migrate their code in advance.

The following sections detail what kinds of changes result in each of major, minor, and patch version bumps:

### Major

- Removal of a component
- Removal of a prop from a component
- Change to the type accepted for a prop
- Breaking changes to minimum version of dependencies
- Breaking changes to public Sass variables, functions and mixins

### Minor

- New component
- New prop for a component
- Additional type accepted for a prop
- Deprecation of a component, prop, public Sass variable, function, or mixin (ahead of its removal in the next major version)

### Patch

- Breaking change to the HTML generated by a component, including addition, removal, or renaming of classes
- Changes that do not impact public APIs
- Non-breaking changes to minimum version of dependencies
- Breaking changes to private Sass variables, functions, and mixins

## Branch organization

We do our best to keep `main` releasable at all times, with work for major releases happening in separate branches. [Breaking changes](./CONTRIBUTING.md#major) should never be merged directly to `main`. Otherwise, if you send a pull request please do it against the `main` branch. Continue reading for more about pull requests and breaking changes.

## Bugs

### Where to find known issues

We track all of our issues in GitHub and [bugs](https://github.com/kommo-crm/react-hooks/labels/Bug) are labeled accordingly. If you are planning to work on an issue, avoid ones which already have an assignee or where someone has commented within the last two weeks they are working on it. We will do our best to communicate when an issue is being worked on internally.

### Reporting new issues

To reduce duplicates, look through open issues before filing one. When [opening an issue](https://github.com/kommo-crm/react-hooks/issues/new?template=ISSUE.yml), complete as much of the template as possible. The best way to get your bug fixed is to provide a reduced test case.

## Feature requests

Before requesting a feature, search the [existing feature requests](https://github.com/kommo-crm/react-hooks/issues). You can [👍 upvote](https://help.github.com/articles/about-conversations-on-github/) feature requests to help the our team set priorities. If a feature request is closed, you can still upvote! A closed feature request means it’s not something we’re currently working on, but we take all your input into account when planning what to work on next.

Otherwise, [request a feature](https://github.com/kommo-crm/react-hooks/issues/new?labels=Feature+request&template=FEATURE_REQUEST.yml).

## Proposing a change

If you intend to build a new component, change a public API, make design improvements, or any other non-trivial changes, [we recommend filing an issue](https://github.com/kommo-crm/react-hooks/issues/new?labels=Feature+request&template=FEATURE_REQUEST.yml). This lets us all discuss and reach an agreement on the proposal before you put in significant time and effort.

Please use this [template for proposing new components or changes to existing components](https://github.com/kommo-crm/react-hooks/issues/new?labels=Component&template=NEW_COMPONENT.yml).

If you’re only fixing a bug, it’s okay to submit a pull request right away but we still recommend you file an issue detailing what you’re fixing. This is helpful in case we don’t accept that specific fix but want to keep track of the issue.

## Sending a pull request

We’ll review your pull request and either merge it, request changes to it, or close it with an explanation. We’ll do our best to provide updates and feedback throughout the process.

**Before submitting a pull request**, please:

1. Fork the repository and create your branch from `main`
2. Run `yarn` in the repository root
3. Make sure your code lints with `yarn lint`

## Breaking changes

If your pull request contains breaking changes, please target the `next` branch for the next major release. Also, open a pull request against `main` that introduces the deprecation warnings and upgrade path.

If you are unsure if the changes are considered breaking or not, open your pull request against the `main` branch and let us know. We understand it can be uncomfortable asking for help and this is why we have a [code of conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) to ensure the community is positive, encouraging, and helpful.
